# Kubernetes RBAC Simplified Guide

Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) in Kubernetes is a method for regulating access to computer or network resources based on the roles of individual users within an organization. This guide aims to demystify RBAC in Kubernetes, providing clear explanations and examples.

## Understanding RBAC

In Kubernetes, RBAC allows you to control who (which users or processes) can access the Kubernetes API and what permissions they have. It's crucial for securing your cluster's resources and operations.

### Key Components of RBAC

- **Role**: Sets permissions within a specific namespace. Defines what can be done and where.
- **ClusterRole**: Similar to a Role, but with cluster-wide scope. It's for resources that aren't namespace-specific.
- **RoleBinding**: Grants the permissions defined in a Role to a user, group, or service account within a specific namespace.
- **ClusterRoleBinding**: Grants the permissions defined in a ClusterRole across the entire cluster.

## Example: Granting Pod Read Permissions

Imagine you want to grant a user named `john-doe` permission to view Pods in the `development` namespace.

### Step 1: Define a Role for Pod Reading

```yaml
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: Role
metadata:
  namespace: development
  name: pod-reader
rules:
- apiGroups: [""]
  resources: ["pods"]
  verbs: ["get", "watch", "list"]
```

This Role, named pod-reader, allows reading Pods in the development namespace.



## Step 2: Create a RoleBinding for the User
```yaml
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: RoleBinding
metadata:
  name: read-pods
  namespace: development
subjects:
- kind: User
  name: john-doe
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
roleRef:
  kind: Role
  name: pod-reader
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io

```

This RoleBinding, named read-pods, grants john-doe the permissions defined in the pod-reader Role within the development namespace.
## Best Practices

- Principle of Least Privilege: Always grant the minimal level of access necessary.
- Regular Audits: Periodically review RoleBindings and ClusterRoleBindings to ensure they are still required.
- Use Groups: Where possible, assign permissions to groups rather than individual users to simplify management.
## Conclusion

RBAC is a powerful tool for securing access to your Kubernetes cluster's resources. By carefully defining Roles and RoleBindings, you can ensure that users and services have only the access they need, reducing the risk of accidental or malicious changes to your cluster's state.
